Hi, I'm Jim Harmon with California Pest Management
here in sunny southern California. We're going
to talk a little bit about how do you keep
snakes away from your house. Now in southern
California, a lot of our snake issues are
going to be predatory snakes, they're going
after crickets, smaller insects and also going
after rodents. So the first thing is keep
the rats and mice out and away from your house
and off your property whenever possible. In
other words, limit food sources, engage a
good pest control company to do a good preventative
program for you. Eliminate the food source
you won't have the problem. Second, habitat.
This right here behind us is a wonderful habitat.
The snakes can get inside and have a nice
place to hide and stay away from everybody.
They like a nice warm spot after they've eaten,
that way they can digest their food. A lot
of this overgrowth we see here on this hedge,
that's great for snakes because they have
lots of places to hide. This needs to be trimmed
back and thinned and kept in good shape. The
next area we got to be concerned about it,
these tall berries, again, keep them cleaned
up, especially around the base of them, but
when you go into the pool areas, everybody
has a pool also has all their pool equipment.
That is a neglected area. These are all quiet
zones. Not only can rats and mice develop
in there but snakes love them. OK now one
of the other areas, we have a nice garage
here and a tool shed next to it. We don't
normally go into these everyday, usually on
the weekends but you can see we've got little
cracks and holes in the corners and a lot
of times you might even have this left open.
Next to it I've also got a lot of pots stored.
Now these pots when you have them all stored
and jumbled over, that's a great place for
the snakes to hide too. So we have a lot of
hiding spots for them and we really need to
make sure that they don't have any place to
go. That needs to be cleaned up and sealed
up. And these ponds especially above ground,
there's a lot of areas around it for a snake
to hide. Now unfortunately this particular
aquascape, this little pond here, is right
next to the back door. So if you happen to
come out to your backyard and you leave the
door a little bit open, the snake's right
here, they can scoot straight on inside and
they feel the cold air, they're going to go
on in and hide.